== TinyMon - Website Acceptance Monitoring

TinyMon is a small tool to automatically and periodically monitor that features of your website are still working. It basically emulates a browser and does health checks composed of steps, like a normal user would do. The steps are easily defined and configured over a nice user interface. Internally, the wonderful Webrat framework is used, so the engine is powerful and well tested.

=== Use cases

- Use TinyMon to monitor if your on-site search feature is working as expected
- Fill in login forms and log in with a test account
- Do a complete transaction for your online shop

=== Features

- Automatically updated overview
- Overview of recent activity
- Test duration graph
- Log output
- Email on failure
- Retry 3 times on failure to avoid false negatives
- Extreme Feedback Device-like overview
- Choose check interval per health check

=== Missing Stuff

- Configuration has to be done by hand
- No Login mechanism
- Support for languages other than german
- Some step types might be missing
- Alerts other than by email (e.g. SMS)
- Limit the number of alerts
- Nice way of distributing the application
- Nice way to setup the database
- Nice way of starting all needed processes

=== Installation

Clone the repository. Then run

  rake gems:install
  rake db:create:all
  rake db:migrate

=== Running

This is pre-alpha. So there you need to start the processes manually. Start the server like any Rails application:

  script/server -e production

Start the background checker process with

  RAILS_ENV=production script/checker

=== Contributing

Do the github dance. That means fork the project, make your changes, and send me a pull request.

=== About

TinyMon was written by Thomas Kadauke.

=== Getting it, License and Patches

Get the complete source code through github.com/tkadauke/tiny_mon. For installation instructions, see above. License is MIT. That means that you can do whatever you want with the software, as long as the copyright statement stays intact. Please be a kind open source citizen, and give back your patches and extensions. Just fork the code on Github, and after you’re done, send us a pull request. Thanks for your help!

=== Acknowledgements

The design of TinyMon is a derivative work of the free homeofprojects001 (http://www.openwebdesign.org/viewdesign.phtml?id=5258) design.

The icons used for status information are borrowed from KDE's Oxygen icon set (http://www.oxygen-icons.org).
